Hey. So, now we're going to learn about calculating Shapley values.
So, as before, you can go ahead and right-click this Jupyter icon,
open link in new tab so that way you can follow along in the videos in
the classroom and also you can work with the code without the extra horizontal headers.
So go to calculate shop,
this is the notebook that we'll work with.
Great. So, let's calculate Shapley values.
Shapley values, as used in coalition game theory,
were introduced by William Shapley in 1953,
and so they're named after William Shapley.
Scott Lundburg applied Shapley values for calculating feature importance in 2017.
So, here's just a link to Scott Luneburg's page.
Here's a link to the article published by Scott Luneburg and Su-In Lee,
A Unified Approach to Interpreting Model Predictions.
So, if you would like to read the paper,
which is good practice,
then I'd recommend certain sections so you don't have to read the whole thing.
So, read the abstract.
Number one, Part two.
Skip ahead a little bit and go to classic Shapley Value Estimation.
So, what I mean is, if you go to the paper,
the link of it is here,
if you go to the paper,
just read the abstract,
rad the introduction, read this part of Section 2.
When you get to Line 2.1s you can skip that,
skip 2.2, skip 2.3 and just jump to 2.4 classic Shapley Value Estimation.
Read this section and you can stop at the end of Page three.
All right. So that's optional if you want to read the paper
yourself first, which is good practice.
Otherwise, we continue on with Notebook, or with this video.
So Lundberg calls this feature importance method SHAP,
which stands for Shapley additive explanations.
Here's the formula for calculating Shapley values, So,
this Greek symbol is called Phi,
Phi sub i, where i refers to a particular feature.
So, for instance if we had three features,
then I would be index 0,
1, 2 for each of those features.
A key part of this is the difference between the model's prediction with feature i,
and the model's prediction without feature i,
which is this part of the formula right here.
So, S refers to a subset of features that doesn't
include the feature for which we're calculating Phi sub i, okay?
So, S is a set of features,
it doesn't include the feature for which we're calculating its importance.
So that's why we're going to have a difference between the model with just features in S,
and the model with features in S including and adding on feature i.
Now S union i is the subset that includes features in S plus feature i,
okay? So that's right here.
Now this expression which you see here in the formula,
so this in the summation symbol,
it's saying all sets S that are subsets of
the full set of features M excluding feature i.
So, this is saying, we can create different combinations of the features,
all the features the entire list of features is in M,
and all the subsets,
S,are the ones that don't include the feature i.
So now you have some options for your learning.
If you're okay with using this formula,
then you can skip ahead to the code section below.
If you would like an explanation for what this formula is doing,
especially this part with the factorials,
then please continue either watching the optional video,
or reading along in the notebook. Thanks.